---
layout: post
title: "2017 in Reading"
permalink:
published: true
date: 2018-01-04 13:52 -0600
category:
tag:
- reading
featured-img: /img/alfons-morales-410757-unsplash.jpg
alt-text: "Photo of bookshelves filled with books"
caption: "Photo by Alfons Morales on Unsplash"
attribution:
- Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/YLSwjSy7stw?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Alfons Morales</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
---

Here's everything I read in 2017:

- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 5_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- "The Venus Effect" by Joseph Allen Hill
- _Liselotte and Witch's Forest 2_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _Ancillary Sword_ by Ann Leckie
- _The Four Pillars of Investing_ by William Bernstein
- _Ancillary Mercy_ by Ann Leckie
- _The Last Witness_ by K.J. Parker
- _Star*Line 40.1_ ed F.J. Bergmann _(poetry)_
- _The Dream-Quest of Vellitt Boe_ by Kij Johnson
- _Binti: Home_ by Nnedi Okorafor
- _Pansy_ by Andrea Gibson _(poetry)_
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 6_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _Our Super Adventure_ by Sarah Graley _(comics)_
- _Early Retirement Extreme_ by Jacob Lund Fisker
- _Finding My Elegy_ by Ursula K. Le Guin _(poetry)_
- _How to Think About Money_ by Jonathan Clements
- _The Pocketknife Bible_ by Anis Mojgani _(poetry)_
- _The Left Hand of Darkness_ by Ursula K. Le Guin
- _Community and Growth_ by Jean Vanier
- _The Fall of Fergal_ by Philip Ardagh
- _Heir of Mystery_ by Philip Ardagh
- _The Rise of the House of McNally_ by Philip Ardagh
- _Arcadia_ by Tom Stoppard _(play)_
- _The Tombs of Atuan_ by Ursula K. Le Guin
- _The Bad Beginning_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The Reptile Room_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The Wide Window_ by Lemony Snicket
- _Liselotte and Witch's Forest 3_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 7_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- "Semiotic Disobedience" by Sonia Katyal
- _Use of Weapons_ by Iain M. Banks
- _All Systems Red_ by Martha Wells
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 8_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _Oracle Bones_ by Peter Hessler
- _The Churn_ by James S.A. Corey
- _The 2017 Rhysling Anthology_ ed David C. Kopaska-Merkel _(poetry)_
- _Passing Strange_ by Ellen Klages
- _The Invisible Hand_ by Ayad Akhtar _(play)_
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 9_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _The Things We Do For Love_ by K.J. Parker
- _Killing Gravity_ by Corey J. White
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 10_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _On Bullshit_ by Harry Frankfurt
- _Hammers on Bone_ by Cassandra Khaw
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 11_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _Fruits Basket Collector's Edition, Vol. 12_ by Natsuki Takaya _(manga)_
- _Y: The Last Man -- Book One_ by Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra _(comics)_
- _Y: The Last Man: One Small Step_ by Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra _(comics)_
- _The Civil Servant's Notebook_ by Wang Xiaofang
- _Theatre Topics: Volume 25, Number 3, September 2015_ ed Gwendolyn Alker
- _The Farthest Shore_ by Ursula K. Le Guin
- _The Fault in Our Stars_ by John Green
- _Stunt Water_ by Buddy Wakefield _(poetry)_
- _Dwarf Stars 2017_ ed Robin Mayhall _(poetry)_
- _The New Rosary in Scripture_ by Edward Sri
- _Code 2.0_ by Lawrence Lessig
- _Star*Line 40.2_ ed F.J. Bergmann _(poetry)_
- _Y: The Last Man: Safeword_ by Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra _(comics)_
- _Y: The Last Man -- Book Three_ by Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra _(comics)_
- _Down Among the Sticks and Bones_ by Seanan McGuire
- _Screaming_ by John Reinhart _(poetry chapbook)_
- _Y: The Last Man -- Book Four_ by Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra _(comics)_
- _Steering the Craft: A 21st-Century Guide to Sailing the Sea of Story_ by Ursula K. Le Guin
- _Y: The Last Man -- Book Five_ by Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra _(comics)_
- _Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom_ by Cory Doctorow
- _Witches of Lychford_ by Paul Cornell
- _Tranny: Confessions of Punk Rock's Most Infamous Anarchist Sellout_ by Laura Jane Grace
- _Educating for Insurgency_ by Jay Gillen
- _Bannerless_ by Carrie Vaughn
- _Nightmare Magazine Issue 49: POC Destroy Horror!_ ed Silvia Moreno-Garcia
- _Islamic Exceptionalism: How the Struggle Over Islam Is Reshaping the World_ by Shadi Hamid
- _Star*Line 40.3_ ed F.J. Bergmann _(poetry)_
- _Provenance_ by Ann Leckie
- _Best American Science Fiction and Fantasy 2016_ ed John Joseph Adams
- _How Everything Became War and the Military Became Everything: Tales from the Pentagon_ by Rosa Brooks
- _Nemesis Games_ by James S.A. Corey

No joke, 2017 was a productive, delightful year in reading for me. As a slight disclaimer, however, I will note that on the above list, I have labeled which reads were plays, comics, and poetry, but I have not labeled which reads were novellas---and I did read a lot of novellas last year.

Now, let's look at some highlights.

## Ann Leckie

Ann Leckie is my new favorite author. She's the space opera goddess for our times. Last winter, I read her [Imperial Radch trilogy]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-02-14-The-Imperial-Radch-Trilogy %}), a profound and enjoyable meditation on empire, identity, and justice. And this past autumn, I read her new book [*Provenance*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-12-19-Reading %}), which is basically most of the awesomeness of the Radch trilogy condensed into a smaller tale in a new, fascinating civilization. Ann Leckie is a masterful world builder. She pays careful attention to the details of dress and food, she has a keen eye for class differentials, power imbalances, and issues of justice, and she brilliantly and successfully experiments with gender, politics, and aliens. I kind of want to write a dissertation on her.

## Fruits Basket

[*Fruits Basket*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-08-01-Reading %}) is Danae's favorite manga series. I understand why. I also love it. The series features a huge ensemble of well-developed, likable characters who grow and mature together within a beautiful web of mutual relationships. It's one of those series where, by the time you finish reading it, the characters all really feel like your friends. It's fabulous.

## Y: The Last Man

My old community-mate Pat introduced this comic book series to me.
[*Y: The Last Man*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-09-25-Reading %}) tells the story of Yorick Brown and his pet monkey, the only two survivors of a mysterious plague that instantly kills every other mammal with a Y chromosome. It's a post-apocalyptic adventure that's fun, interesting, pulpy, enjoyably stupid, well-plotted, tightly-paced, and featuring great characters. It's tons of fun.

## Nonfiction Hits

I read some great nonfiction this year as well. Stand out nonfiction books are:

- [_Code 2.0_ by Lawrence Lessig]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-08-30-Reading %})
- [_Tranny: Confessions of Punk Rock's Most Infamous Anarchist Sellout_ by Laura Jane Grace]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-11-01-Reading %})
- [_Islamic Exceptionalism: How the Struggle Over Islam Is Reshaping the World_ by Shadi Hamid]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-11-01-Reading %})
- [_How Everything Became War and the Military Became Everything: Tales from the Pentagon_ by Rosa Brooks]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-12-19-Reading %})

## Awesome Novellas

I read tons of novellas this year. My four favorites are:

- [_All Systems Red_ by Martha Wells]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-06-23-Reading %})
- [_Passing Strange_ by Ellen Klages]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-06-23-Reading %})
- [_The Things We Do For Love_ by K.J. Parker]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-08-01-Reading %})
- [_Down Among the Sticks and Bones_ by Seanan McGuire]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-09-25-Reading %})

## Unlikely Exploits

Philip Ardagh is one of my favorite children's authors because of his Eddie Dickens series. This year, I finally got around to reading one of his other series, the [Unlikely Exploits]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-05-17-Reading %}) trilogy. This trilogy is one of the most delightful, genuinely surprising things I've ever read, and I actually like it more than his Eddie Dickens series (which is still very close to my heart). The three books in this trilogy are:

- _The Fall of Fergal_ by Philip Ardagh
- _Heir of Mystery_ by Philip Ardagh
- _The Rise of the House of McNally_ by Philip Ardagh

## The Expanse

[*The Expanse*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-12-19-Reading %}) remains at the top on my "Generally Recommended" list. Put simply, *The Expanse* series by James S.A. Corey is the most fun I've ever had reading---yes, I find it more fun than *Harry Potter*. The first book in the series is *Leviathan Wakes*. Go read that. This past December, I read *Nemesis Games*, the fifth book in the series, and like every other book in the series, it totally rocked.

The series also has a TV show (also called *The Expanse*) airing on Syfy. It's third season starts soon. Go watch it. To my mind, it's the best show currently on air.
