---
layout: post
title: "2018 in Reading"
permalink:
published: true
date: 2019-01-20 14:00
categories:
- reading
tags:
- year in review
- Hrotsvitha of Gandersheim
- Seanan McGuire
- Nnedi Okorafor
- Walter M. Miller Jr.
- Lemony Snicket
- James S.A. Corey
- Geonn Cannon
- Liu Cixin
description:
- Here's what I read in 2018.
featured-img: /img/susan-yin-647448-unsplash.jpg
alt-text: "Photo of a library"
caption: "Photo by Susan Yin on Unsplash"
attribution:
- Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/2JIvboGLeho?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Susan Yin</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
---

Here's all the books I that read in 2018:

- _The Plays of Roswitha_ translated by Christopher St. John
- _UH-OH: The Collected Poetry, Stories and Erotic Sass of Derrick C. Brown_ by Derrick C. Brown _(poetry)_
- _Dream Hoarders: How the American Upper Middle Class Is Leaving Everyone Else in the Dust, Why That Is a Problem, and What to Do About It_ by Richard Reeves
- _Our Super American Adventure_ by Sarah Graley _(comics)_
- _Binti: The Night Masquerade_ by Nnedi Okorafor
- _Star*Line 40.4_ edited by Vince Gotera _(poetry)_
- _Beneath the Sugar Sky_ by Seanan McGuire
- _The Miserable Mill_ by Lemony Snicket
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 20_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _Drink Cultura: Chicanismo_ by José Antonio Burciaga
- _Dreams & Nightmares 108_ edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel _(poetry)_
- _The Stars Are Legion_ by Kameron Hurley
- _Capricious Issue 9: Gender Diverse Pronouns_ edited by A.C. Buchanan
- _The Austere Academy_ by Lemony Snicket
- _Let Your Life Speak: Listening for the Voice of Vocation_ by Parker J. Palmer
- _Pole Dancing to Gospel Hymns_ by Andrea Gibson _(poetry)_
- _The Female Man_ by Joanna Russ
- _The Ersatz Elevator_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The Imperial University: Academic Repression and Scholarly Dissent_ edited by Piya Chatterjee and Sunaina Maira
- _The Vile Village_ by Lemony Snicket
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 21_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _The Missionary's Curse and Other Tales from a Chinese Catholic Village_ by Henrietta Harrison
- _Mythic Delirium 4.4_ edited by Mike Allen
- _A Canticle for Leibowitz_ by Walter M. Miller Jr.
- _In the Pockets of Small Gods_ by Anis Mojgani _(poetry)_
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 22_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _The Hostile Hospital_ by Lemony Snicket
- _Rendezvous with Rama_ by Arthur C. Clarke
- _The Hacked World Order: How Nations Fight, Trade, Maneuver, and Manipulate in the Digital Age_ by Adam Segal
- _The Carnivorous Carnival_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The Slippery Slope_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The Grim Grotto_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The Penultimate Peril_ by Lemony Snicket
- _The End_ by Lemony Snicket
- _Phoebe and Her Unicorn_ by Dana Simpson _(comics)_
- _The China Questions: Critical Insights into a Rising Power_ edited by Jennifer Rudolph and Michael Szonyi
- _Leviathan Wakes_ by James S.A. Corey
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 23_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _Teaching Critical Thinking: Practical Wisdom_ by bell hooks
- _The Bride was a Boy_ by Chii _(manga)_
- _Babylon's Ashes_ by James S.A. Corey
- _Dwarf Stars 2018: The Best Very Short Speculative Poems Published in 2017_ edited by Deborah P. Kolodji _(poetry)_
- _Broken Metropolis: Queer Tales of a City That Never Was_ edited by Dave Ring
- _The Three-Body Problem_ by Liu Cixin and translated Ken Liu
- _Transcendent: The Year's Best Transgender Speculative Fiction_ edited by K.M. Szpara
- _The Dark Forest_ by Liu Cixin and translated Joel Martinsen
- _Fiyah Magazine Issue 7_ edited by Justina Ireland, Troy L. Wiggins, and Brandon O’Brien
- _Death's End_ by Liu Cixin and translated Ken Liu
- _Capricious Issue 10_ edited by A.C. Buchanan
- _Mithila Review Issue 10_ edited by Salik Shah and Ajapa Sharma
- _Over the Anvil We Stretch_ by Anis Mojgani _(poetry)_
- _I Am Providence_ by Nick Mamatas
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 24: Disabled People Destroy Science Fiction!_ edited by Dominik Parisien and Elsa Sjunneson-Henry
- _Sword and Sonnet_ edited by Aidan Doyle, Rachael K. Jones, E. Catherine Tobler
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 25_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _Kim Reaper: Grim Beginnings_ by Sarah Graley _(comics)_
- _Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison_ by Michel Foucault
- _The Remnant Fleet_ by Geonn Cannon
- _Moonstruck Vol 1: Magic to Brew_ by Grace Ellis and Shae Beagle _(comics)_
- _Amaryllis and Other Stories_ by Carrie Vaughn
- _Dreams & Nightmares 109_ edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel _(poetry)_

Let's review the highlights.

### Hrotsvitha of Gandersheim

[Hrotsvitha of Gandersheim](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hrotsvitha) is so awesome and I love her. She's a 10th-century German canoness, dramatist, and poet who attempted to christianize the work of Terence, the Roman comic playwright. I reread her plays at the start of 2018 and [blogged]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-08-Reading %}#the-plays-of-roswitha-translated-by-christopher-st-john) about them.

This year, now that work from 1923 has finally, definitively entered the public domain, an English translation of her plays is now in the public domain. *Yay!* I [blogged]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-01-01-Happy-Public-Domain-Day %}) about that earlier this month and also shared [an ebook](/files/The Plays of Roswitha - Roswitha of Gandersheim.epub) of that book that I had designed.

### Novellas

[*Beneath the Sugar Sky*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-08-Reading %}) by Seanan McGuire was another fabulous entry in Seanan McGuire's fabulous *Wayward Children* series.

[*Binti: The Night Masquerade*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-08-Reading %}#binti-the-night-masquerade-by-nnedi-okorafor) by Nnedi Okorafor is a delightful and surprising conclusion to Nnedi Okorafor's *Binti* trilogy.

### *A Canticle for Leibowitz* by Walter M. Miller Jr.

Wow. This science fiction classic is funny, powerful, and stunningly unique, even 60 years later. [I loved it.]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-07-16-Reading %}#a-canticle-for-leibowitz-by-walter-m-miller-jr)

### *A Series of Unfortunate Events* by Lemony Snicket

This series was fun and surprisingly challenging at times. I hadn't read it before, and I'm very glad [I read it]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-07-16-Reading %}#a-series-of-unfortunate-events-by-lemony-snicket) last year.

### The Expanse

*The Expanse* series [remains]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-01-04-2017-in-Reading %}#the-expanse) [tremendous fun]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-12-30-Recent-Reading %}#leviathan-wakes-and-babylons-ashes-by-james-sa-corey). If you like space opera, or if you even just like stories set in space, I highly recommend you read this series.

### *The Remnant Fleet* by Geonn Cannon

This was a fun, queer, and relatively short space opera that I stumbled upon. Of course [I loved it.]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-12-30-Recent-Reading %}#the-remnant-fleet-by-geonn-cannon)

### *Remembrance of Earth’s Past*

This is the trilogy written by Liu Cixin and comprised of *The Three-Body Problem*, *The Dark Forest*, and *Death’s End* (translated Ken Liu and Joel Martinsen). [I really enjoyed]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-12-30-Recent-Reading %}#the-three-body-problem-the-dark-forest-and-deaths-end-by-liu-cixin-translated-ken-liu-and-joel-martinsen) this imaginative and expansive trilogy.

### Nonfiction Hits

Here's some of the best nonfiction I read in 2018:

* [*Dream Hoarders: How the American Upper Middle Class Is Leaving Everyone Else in the Dust, Why That Is a Problem, and What to Do About It*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-08-Reading %}#dream-hoarders-how-the-american-upper-middle-class-is-leaving-everyone-else-in-the-dust-why-that-is-a-problem-and-what-to-do-about-it-by-richard-v-reeves) by Richard Reeves
* [*The Imperial University: Academic Repression and Scholarly Dissent*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-07-16-Reading %}#the-imperial-university-academic-repression-and-scholarly-dissent-edited-piya-chatterjee-and-sunaina-maira) edited Piya Chatterjee and Sunaina Maira
* [*The Hacked World Order: How Nations Fight, Trade, Maneuver, and Manipulate in the Digital Age*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-07-16-Reading %}#the-hacked-world-order-how-nations-fight-trade-maneuver-and-manipulate-in-the-digital-age-by-adam-segal) by Adam Segal
* [*Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-12-31-Discipline-and-Punish %}) by Michel Foucault

### Short Fiction

And of course I read a ton of short fiction last year too. Check out my ["Favorite 2018 Short Stories"]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-01-19-Favorite-2018-Short-Stories %}) post for more on that.
