---
layout: post
title: "2019 in Reading"
permalink:
published: true
date: 2020-01-10 08:11
categories:
- reading
tags:
- year in review
description:
- Here's my list of every book that I read in 2019.
featured-img: /img/kimberly-farmer-lUaaKCUANVI-unsplash.jpg
alt-text: "A colorful stack of books"
caption: "Photo by Kimberly Farmer on Unsplash"
attribution:
- Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@kimberlyfarmer?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Kimberly Farmer</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
---

Here's all the books that I read in 2019:

- _Walkaway_ by Cory Doctorow
- _Zen to Done: The Ultimate Simple Productivity System_ by Leo Babauta
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 26_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _Dreams & Nightmares 110_ edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel _(poetry)_
- _The Only Harmless Great Thing_ by Brooke Bolander
- _Dreams & Nightmares 111_ edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel _(poetry)_
- _Born to the Blade: Season 1_ by Michael R. Underwood, Marie Brennan, Malka Older, Cassandra Khaw
- _A People's History of the United States_ by Howard Zinn
- _Acadie_ by Dave Hutchinson
- _The Stars Change_ by Mary Anne Mohanraj
- _A People’s Future of the United States_ edited by Victor LaValle and John Joseph Adams
- _The Lamb Will Slaughter the Lion_ by Margaret Killjoy
- _Vulture Bones Issue 4_ edited by B R Sanders
- _Invisible Planets: Contemporary Chinese Science Fiction in Translation_ translated and edited by Ken Liu
- _If This Goes On_ edited by Cat Rambo
- _The Grace of Kings_ by Ken Liu
- _Miranda in Milan_ by Katharine Duckett
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 27_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _Legalizing LGBT Families: How the Law Shapes Parenthood_ by Amanda K. Baumle and D'Lane R. Compton
- _Radicalized_ by Cory Doctorow
- _Rocket Fuel: Some of the Best from Tor.com Non-Fiction_ edited by Bridget McGovern and Chris Lough
- _The Wall of Storms_ by Ken Liu
- _Do Not Go Quietly_ edited by Jason Sizemore & Lesley Conner
- _A Whirlwind Tour of Python_ by Jake VanderPlas
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 28_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _Plays_ by Roswitha of Gandersheim
- _Free Software Free Society (Third Edition)_ by Richard Stallman
- _Sex and the Constitution: Sex, Religion, and Law from America's Origins to the Twenty-First Century_ by Geoffrey R. Stone
- _The Black Tides of Heaven_ by JY Yang
- _Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned_ by Walter Mosley
- _The Red Threads of Fortune_ by JY Yang
- _The 2019 Rhysling Anthology_ edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel _(poetry)_
- _Our Super Adventure: Video Games and Pizza Parties_ by Sarah Graley & Stef Purenins _(comics)_
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 29_ edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- _In an Absent Dream_ by Seanan McGuire
- _So Good They Can’t Ignore You_ by Cal Newport
- _The Wild Dead_ by Carrie Vaughn
- _Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World_ by David Epstein _(skim read & took notes)_
- _Dragon Pearl_ by Yoon Ha Lee
- _Algorithmic Shapeshifting_ by Bogi Takács _(poetry)_
- _Uncanny Magazine Issue 30: Disabled People Destroy Fantasy!_ edited by Katharine Duckett, Nicolette Barischoff, and Lisa M. Bradley
- _The Second Mountain: The Quest for a Moral Life_ by David Brooks
- _This Is How You Lose the Time War_ by Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone
- _The Raven Tower_ by Ann Leckie
- _Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & Break Bad Ones_ by James Clear
- _Unicorn on a Roll: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure_ by Dana Simpson _(comics)_
- _The Truth About Forever_ by Sarah Dessen
- _Unicorn vs. Goblins: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure_ by Dana Simpson _(comics)_
- _The Fifth Season_ by N.K. Jemisin
- _Unicorn Crossing: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure_ by Dana Simpson _(comics)_
- _Phoebe and Her Unicorn in The Magic Storm_ by Dana Simpson _(comics)_

I also read a good chunk of short fiction. I'll have another post coming soon in which I shout out my favorite short stories originally published in 2019. But for now, let's review the highlights of the books that I read last year.

### Born to the Blade: Season 1

This was my first venture into the world of [Serial Box](https://www.serialbox.com). I [really enjoyed]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-03-09-Recent-Reading %}#born-to-the-blade-season-1-by-michael-r-underwood-marie-brennan-malka-older-cassandra-khaw) this story. I feel a little burned on Serial Box now, though, because this season ended on a cliffhanger, and it looks like there's not going to be a season 2. I would like to read [*The Vela*](https://www.serialbox.com/serials/the-vela) from Serial Box, but I don't want to start it until I know it gets some sort of resolution.

### Favorite Novels

* *Walkaway* by Cory Doctorow: a fun and fascinating novel about the end of capitalism and the end of death. [I absolutely loved it.]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-03-09-Recent-Reading %}#walkaway-by-cory-doctorow)
* *The Grace of Kings* and *The Wall of Storms* by Ken Liu: Just wow. These books are stunning achievements. I'm dying to read book three in this series. More of my thoughts [here]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-07-20-Recent-Reading %}#the-grace-of-kings-and-the-wall-of-storms-by-ken-liu).
* *The Wild Dead* by Carrie Vaugh: a tremendously fun and smart post-apocalyptic murder mystery. It's a sequel to [*Bannerless*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-11-01-Reading %}#bannerless-by-carrie-vaughn), which I also loved.
* *The Raven Tower* by Ann Leckie: This is Ann Leckie's new book. Therefore, it is superb.
* *The Fifth Season* by N.K. Jemisin: I now understand why this series won all the Hugos. I am really looking forward to reading the next two books in the trilogy.

### Favorite Novellas

Two standout novellas that I read last year were *In an Absent Dream* by Seanan McGuire and *The Stars Change* by Mary Anne Mohanraj.

*In an Absent Dream* is the latest book in McGuire's Wayward Children series. This book was wonderful. The series is phenomenal. Here are my thoughts on the first three books in the series: [*Every Heart a Doorway*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2016-10-12-Every-Heart-a-Doorway %}), [*Down Among the Sticks and Bones*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-09-25-Reading %}#down-among-the-sticks-and-bones-by-seanan-mcguire), and [*Beneath the Sugar Sky*]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-08-Reading %}#beneath-the-sugar-sky-by-seanan-mcguire).

*The Stars Change* is amazing. [Check here]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-03-09-Recent-Reading %}#the-stars-change-by-mary-anne-mohanraj) for my thoughts on it.

### Comics!

*Our Super Adventure: Video Games and Pizza Parties* by Sarah Graley & Stef Purenins was delightful. If you're unfamiliar with their cute, geeky diary comic [*Our Super Adventure*](https://www.oursuperadventure.com/), you should definitely check it out.

I've also been reading Dana Simpson's [*Phoebe and Her Unicorn*](https://www.gocomics.com/phoebe-and-her-unicorn) books. Again, if you haven't read these, you gotta check them out. This comic series rivals (and honestly I enjoy more than) *Calvin and Hobbes* and *The Peanuts*. I particularly loved *Phoebe and Her Unicorn in The Magic Storm*, which was a graphic novel rather than a collection of individual strips.

Related, you should also definitely be following [*Pepper & Carrot*](https://www.peppercarrot.com/), a gorgeous and funny web comic about a young witch and her cat.

### Nonfiction Hits

Here are my favorite nonfiction reads from 2019:

* [*A People’s History of the United States* by Howard Zinn]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-04-06-Peoples-History %}): the critical view of US American history that they don't teach you (but should) in school
* *Sex and the Constitution: Sex, Religion, and Law from America’s Origins to the Twenty-First Century* by Geoffrey R. Stone: an engaging, deeply informative, and actually really fun read all about sex, contraception, abortion, same-sex marriage, censorship, obscenity, morality, religion, and law in the US
* *The Second Mountain: The Quest for a Moral Life* by David Brooks: a thoughtful and persuasive book in which David Brooks argues that lives of meaning and purpose are rooted in commitments to a spouse and a family, to a vocation, to a philosophy or faith, and to a local community.
* *So Good They Can’t Ignore You* by Cal Newport: an easy, interesting, and persuasive read. Somewhat counter-intuitive. Newport argues that rather than following your preexisting passions, you should instead cultivate rare and valuable skills in order to have a successful career that you enjoy.
* *Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & Break Bad Ones* by James Clear: an engaging, informative, and easy read all about habits. If you want to cultivate good habits, start here.
