---
layout: post
title: "2020 in Reading"
permalink:
published: true
date: 2021-01-07 16:50
categories:
- reading
tags:
- year in review
- N.K. Jemisin
- Becky Chambers
description:
- Here's my list of every book that I read in 2020.
featured-img: /img/radu-marcusu-mbKApJz6RSU-unsplash.jpg
alt-text: "Photo of an large wall of books with a person standing and facing the books with their back to the camera"
caption: "Photo by Radu Marcusu on Unsplash"
attribution:
- Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@radu_marcusu?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Radu Marcusu</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
---

Here's most all the books I read in 2020:

1. <cite>Our Super Canadian Adventure: An Our Super Adventure Travelogue</cite> by Sarah Graley and Stef Purenins *(comics)*
2. <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 31</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
3. <cite>Unicorn of Many Hats: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson *(comics)*
4. <cite>The Obelisk Gate</cite> by N.K. Jemisin
5. <cite>Phoebe and Her Unicorn in Unicorn Theatre</cite> by Dana Simpson *(comics)*
6. <cite>Managing Transitions: Making the Most of Change: 3rd Edition</cite> by William Bridges
7. <cite>The Stone Sky</cite> by N.K. Jemisin
8. <cite>Unicorn Bowling: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson *(comics)*
9. <cite>The Unicorn Whisperer: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson *(comics)*
10. <cite>Digital Minimalism: Choosing a Focused Life is a Noisy World</cite> by Cal Newport
11. <cite>Saga: Volume One</cite> by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples *(comics)*
12. <cite>Come Tumbling Down</cite> by Seanan McGuire
13. <cite>Secretly, I've Been Suffering About Being Sexless</cite> by Togame translated by Alexandra McCullough-Garcia *(manga)*
14. <cite>Artificial Condition</cite> by Martha Wells
15. <cite>Saga: Volume Two</cite> by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples *(comics)*
16. <cite>Sisters of the Vast Black</cite> by Lina Rather
17. <cite>Prosper's Demon</cite> by K.J. Parker
18. <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 32</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
19. <cite>Finna</cite> by Nino Cipri
20. <cite>Saga: Volume Three</cite> by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples *(comics)*
21. <cite>The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet</cite> by Becky Chambers *(audiobook)*
22. <cite>Emergent Strategy: Shaping Change, Changing Worlds</cite> by Adrienne Maree Brown
23. <cite>How to Do Nothing: Resisting the Attention Economy</cite> by Jenny Odell *(audiobook)*
24. <cite>The Deep</cite> by Rivers Solomon with Daveed Diggs, William Hutson, and Jonathan Snipes
25. <cite>Gods of Risk</cite> by James S. A. Corey *(audiobook)*
26. <cite>After the Golden Age</cite> by Carrie Vaughn
27. <cite>Accessibility for Everyone</cite> by Laura Kalbag
28. <cite>Teen Titans: Raven</cite> by Kami Garcia and illustrated by Gabriel Picolo *(graphic novel)*
29. <cite>A Closed and Common Orbit</cite> by Becky Chambers *(audiobook)*
30. <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 33</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
31. <cite>Camping with Unicorns: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson *(comics)*
32. <cite>Design for Real Life</cite> by Eric Meyer and Sara Wachter-Boettcher
33. <cite>Record of a Spaceborn Few</cite> by Becky Chambers *(audiobook)*
34. <cite>Dwarf Stars 2020</cite> edited by Robin Mayhall *(poetry)*
35. <cite>The Crystal Shard</cite> by R.A. Salvatore
36. <cite>Disability Visibility: First-Person Stories from the Twenty-First Century</cite> edited by Alice Wong *(audiobook)*
37. <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 34</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
38. <cite>The Ghosts of Sherwood</cite> by Carrie Vaughn
39. <cite>The Heirs of Locksley</cite> by Carrie Vaughn
40. <cite>Golden Gates: Fighting for Housing in America</cite> by Conor Dougherty *(audiobook)*
41. <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 35</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
42. <cite>To Be Taught, If Fortunate</cite> by Becky Chambers *(audiobook)*
43. <cite>Virtual Unicorn Experience: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson *(comics)*
44. <cite>HTML5 For Web Designers</cite> Jeremy Keith and Rachel Andrew
45. <cite>CSS3 for Web Designers</cite> by Dan Cederholm
46. <cite>Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less</cite> by Greg McKeown
47. <cite>The Ten Thousand Doors of January</cite> by Alix E. Harrow
48. <cite>Teen Titans: Beast Boy</cite> by Kami Garcia and illustrated by Gabriel Picolo *(graphic novel)*
49. <cite>The Bullet Journal Method: Track the Past, Order the Present, Design the Future</cite> by Ryder Carroll
50. <cite>Uprooted</cite> by Naomi Novik *(audiobook)*
51. <cite>Kim Reaper: Grim Beginnings</cite> by Sarah Graley *(comics)*
52. <cite>Kim Reaper: Vampire Island</cite> by Sarah Graley *(comics)*
53. <cite>Pepper & Carrot Book 1: The Potion of Flight</cite> by David Revoy *(comics)*
54. <cite>Our Super Adventure</cite> by Sarah Graley *(comics)*
55. <cite>The City in The Middle of the Night</cite> by Charlie Jane Anders
56. <cite>Over the Anvil We Stretch</cite> by Anis Mojgani *(poetry)*
57. <cite>On Web Typography</cite> by Jason Santa Maria
58. <cite>Pepper & Carrot Book 2: The Witches of Chaosah</cite> by David Revoy *(comics)*
59. <cite>Pepper & Carrot Book 3: The Butterfly Effect</cite> by David Revoy *(comics)*
60. <cite>Webfont Handbook</cite> by Bram Stein
61. <cite>Provenance</cite> by Ann Leckie *(audiobook)*
62. <cite>Our Super Adventure: Video Games and Pizza Parties</cite> by Sarah Graley & Stef Purenins *(comics)*
63. <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 36</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
64. <cite>The Art of Pepper & Carrot</cite> by David Revoy *(comics)*
65. <cite>Cute! An Our Super Adventure Comic Collection</cite> by Sarah Graley and Stef Purenis *(comics)*
66. <cite>Flexible Typesetting</cite> by Tim Brown

That's the long list; now let's shout out the highlights. By "highlights," I mean the reads that I enjoyed the most and that were the most impactful for me personally.

### Novels

Two series really rocked my world in 2020.

First, I loved N.K. Jemisin's Broken Earth trilogy: <cite>The Fifth Season</cite>, <cite>The Obelisk Gate</cite>, and <cite>The Stone Sky</cite>. These novels are phenomenal, and Jemisin totally deserved her unprecedented Hugo Awards trifecta for these works.

Second, I read Becky Chambers' <cite>Wayfarer</cite> series: <cite>The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet</cite>; <cite>A Closed and Common Orbit</cite>; and <cite>Record of a Spaceborn Few</cite>. I think Becky Chambers is now tied with Ann Leckie as being my favorite author. These are moving character-centric novels, set in a fun and detailed space opera universe, suffused with wisdom and profound themes such as family, identity, death, and the very purpose of life.

Those two series were the highlights of my year in reading, but I also read and loved these four incredibly strong novels:

* <cite>Uprooted</cite> by Naomi Novik: a terrific fantasy story about a wizard, a witch, and a corrupted forest
* <cite>The Ten Thousand Doors of January</cite> by Alix E. Harrow: an adventure about --- and in some ways a treatise on --- portal fantasies
* <cite>The City in The Middle of the Night</cite> by Charlie Jane Anders: a masterful piece of worldbuilding and ideas
* <cite>Provenance</cite> by Ann Leckie: an intelligent, cozy, science fictional coming-of-age story

### Novellas

I also read a host of novellas in 2020. These were my favorites:

* <cite>The Ghosts of Sherwood</cite> and <cite>The Heirs of Locksley</cite> by Carrie Vaughn: Robin Hood! Actually, even better: his children!
* <cite>Sisters of the Vast Black</cite> by Lina Rather: nuns in space!
* <cite>Finna</cite> by Nino Cipri: a queer anti-capitalist adventure, featuring IKEA and trans-dimensional portals!
* <cite>To Be Taught, If Fortunate</cite> by Becky Chambers: Becky Chambers being amazing, but a little closer to home than her <cite>Wayfarers</cite> series and with a stronger focus on science (both in terms of plot and theme)

### Comics

When I think about the comics I read last year, three series in particular jump out:

* <cite>Phoebe and Her Unicorn</cite> by Dana Simpson: an enchanting comic strip about a young girl and her best friend, a fabulous unicorn
* <cite>Pepper & Carrot</cite> by David Revoy: a gorgeous and silly webcomic about a young witch and her cat
* <cite>Kim Reaper</cite> by Sarah Graley: a fun, queer comic series about a (human) part-time grim reaper

### Nonfiction

These were my favorite nonfiction reads from 2020:

* <cite>How to Do Nothing: Resisting the Attention Economy</cite> by Jenny Odell: this is a weird, unique, and wonderful book. It's about doing nothing and resisting the attention economy. It's also about art, protest, activism movements, nature, and ecology. Reading this book legit helped reconnect me to my own intrinsic value.
* <cite>Accessibility for Everyone</cite> by Laura Kalbag: For me, a big part of 2020 was [discovering the world of accessibility]({{ site.baseurl }}/blog/categories/#accessibility). This book is a fantastic introduction to the topic.
* <cite>Golden Gates: Fighting for Housing in America</cite> by Conor Dougherty: fantastic narrative nonfiction about housing justice issues in America, and specifically in the San Francisco Bay Area, where I live, where there aren't enough homes, and where the homes that do exist cost way too much.

### Blogging

For me, blogging is a part of reading. Usually, I don't like to just read something and then move on, without pausing to grapple with it a little longer, to articulate my thoughts on it, and to then share those thoughts with others. So it feels appropriate to me to include a roundup of my book blogging alongside this yearly reading roundup.

In earlier years, I did [recent reading blog posts]({{ site.baseurl }}/blog/tags/#recent+reading), where I rounded up all sorts of things I had been reading, and before that, I gave most [every book it's own blog post]({{ site.baseurl }}/blog/categories/#reading) (rather than grouping multiple books together in one post). This year I tried something new: SFF Adventures. At this point, science fiction and fantasy (SFF) is what I read most and care most about, so I decided to start a new "column" here where I shout out and share my thoughts on all the deliciously genre things that I have been reading, listening to, and watching. I've really enjoyed writing these posts! They let me skip to the heart of what I'm interested in, engage more deeply with the <abbr>SFF</abbr> community, and talk about SFF podcasts and TV shows as well as books and essays.

Here are the SFF Adventures blog posts that I wrote in 2020. In these posts, you can find my more detailed thoughts on the books I've shouted out above.

1. [SFF Adventures: July 2020]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2020-07-21-SFF-Adventures %})
2. [SFF Adventures: August 2020]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2020-08-28-SFF-Adventures %})
3. [SFF Adventures: October 2020]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2020-10-23-SFF-Adventures %})
4. [SFF Adventures: December 2020]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2020-12-30-SFF-Adventures %})
